Text entry for mobile computing: Models and methods, theory and practice

First, the study provides an overview of the development of mobile computing, especially the developments in the 90s with pen-based computing. One of the pioneers in this field was Apple’s Newton, although it had its shortcomings and was more for specialists than normal people, which is why it never successfully entered public commerce. Since the study is from 2002, today's mobile phones are not yet widely available and pen base input or via small keyboards are a relatively new research field. The major differences with these two input techniques are that keyboard input immediately generates machine-readable text, while pen input must first be converted to it. Another point is the user satisfaction as more words can be written with the keyboard than handwritten via pen. Next, they presented differences in methodology, such as text creation vs text copying, skilled people or ones who don’t use text entry regularly and the decision to test qualitative or quantitative. In addition there are also two things to measure, speed or/and accuracy. To facilitate text entry, the study presents several options with these two being the base to all of them: the minimization of the movement, to decrease hand or device movement and make it as efficient as possible, or the prediction of the next input. 
The study itself was divided in key and stylus based text entry and predictive input techniques. In doing so, they showed different possibilities such as the telephone keypad (nine keys with a number and three letters), small keyboards (how they were used with Blackberrys) , five-key entry and several stylus entries as the recognition of handwriting, gesture-based input (connecting letters through wiping movements, which are then used to form words) of soft keyboards (they are implemented into the screen and respond to finger or stylus touch). Predictive input displays suggestions to the user, who can then select them with the mouse
In the end they concluded that there are several text entry techniques but most need to be further investigated and tested, especially in terms of accuracy and entry speed and in general there is more research to be done in the future. 
